# Karellen's Reign
## Development

Karellen’s Reign was developed in the Python programming language utilizing the Pygame library. This library allows for the easier creation and showing of windows, images, sprites, and shapes on a cross-platform environment. With the exception of various comments made in the code, all of the sprites in this game were custom made for this specific purpose. All of the code was created by myself and was not copied / pasted from another source. However, I do use the GitHub CoPilot helper in my development environment, so it may have helped me by learning by coding patterns and allowing me to effectively “copy and paste” my own coding style. 

The original build of the game was performed on a computer running the MacOS software. While there should be very few differences in the running of the Pygame library between MacOS and a different operating system, players should be warned that the framerate and possible window mechanics may be different than what has been actually developed. The game is meant to be run in a 1200 by 800 pixel window and should not be resizable.

## Instructions / Rules

Karellen’s Reign employs a number of different mechanics to create a sense that the player is playing as the “controller” of the Earth, similarly to how the Overlords took control of humanity. Henceforth, Karellen’s Reign could be considered what’s known as a zero player game, where the user isn’t actually playing the game, but adjusting and observing the changes being made. This important distinction versus something like a snake game is what makes the gameplay so unique yet confusing at the same time. One other important note to make about the game is the fact that it is turn based. In this model, the user has a limited number of actions (3) that they can play per turn. While these actions may change the current state of the turn and/or game, the ending of a turn has a more significant impact on the game itself.

The main goal of Karellen’s Reign is to achieve peak intelligence for humanity, allowing the current generation’s offspring to become part of the Overmind. However, the concept of human nature restricts this from happening simply, so you must deal with other hurdles to reach this main goal. Two factors that play into achieving the main goal is loyalty and happiness, two key traits that we observe in our own societies. While they are slightly linked to each other (e.g. a low happiness means that there will be a decrease in a person’s loyalty), Karellen’s Reign makes it so that they more directly affect the intelligence level of humans. Keep both of these factors high, and you will see a quicker advancement to the winning goal. Failing to do this may cause you troubles and could force you to re-evaluate your strategies for Karellen’s Reign.
The game ends when the player reaches 100/100 intelligence points, as indicated in the bottom right hand corner. The special thing about this game versus others is the fact that there is no losing condition. Just like the Overlords in Childhood’s End, they waited many years to determine the right time for humanity to face different events. They didn’t have any sense of “loss” in their plans for humanity; they just worked hard to get things done as quickly as they could.

There are several main controls to the game to which the player should be aware. Firstly, movement of the “selection box” is controlled by the WASD or arrow keys, whether it be in the city selection area or the policies menu. To select an option that is highlighted by the selection box, utilize the SPACE key and observe the results. Depending on the option you chose, it may not be valid at the current state of the game, and you must choose a different option. To exit out of the menus seen on screen, the ESCAPE or “0” keys can be utilized to go back to the main city view. Finally, there are specific menus that can be accessed through special key presses. Though there are indicators on the screen describing these keys (that you can click as well), they are listed below:
P - Policies Menu (note that exiting and reentering the policy menu without going to the next turn or selecting an option for a policy will NOT result in a change in the onscreen content)
Q - Global Interaction Menu
ENTER (hold) - Next Turn (you should see a green bar rushing across the top when you are holding space; allow for the green bar to reach the end, and you have gotten to the next turn)

In Childhood’s End, there are seven different cities that the Overlords “occupy” to gain control over the Earth and the trust of the people. In Karellen’s Reign, you must manage each of these seven cities with various loyalties and happiness levels. On the main screen, you can change your “currently selected city” by utilizing your WASD keys or arrow keys. To select a city to “interact with” (or any other main interaction), press the SPACE key and wait for the menu to appear. In the menu that appears, there will be several different options that you can perform with a city, though some may still require you to wait a few turns to use. To select an appropriate interaction with a city, press the SPACE key over an action that does not specify that it’s unavailable. Once the action is performed–indicated by the removal of the menu–the city statistics will update accordingly to the action that you chose.
A city in Karellen’s Reign also makes use of population growth to make the game significantly more difficult as time goes on. On the city icons, the current population is indicated at the top. When the population is higher, performing actions and going to the next turn have a more powerful impact on loyalty and happiness, which can be found at the bottom of the applicable city icon.
Karellen’s Reign also becomes more difficult factoring in the mystery of the current loyalty and happiness of each city. At the beginning of the game, the user is knowledgeable about the starting statistics of each city. However, as specific interactions are made globally or with each city, the happiness and loyalty levels start to become unknown to the player (indicated by gray loyalty and/or happiness indicators). To see the current statuses, the player must use an action on a specific city to “Gage Loyalty and Happiness” which will reveal the current data points about the city.

The Overlord’s also had to manage the overall policy and actions taken in a global sense. In Karellen’s Reign, the player must be able to implement worldwide actions and make decisions based on conflicts that may threaten the intelligence of humanity. To enact a global action, press the Q button to open up the left-side menu. Once you are in the menu, it acts the same just as the city menu did, where you can use WASD (or arrow) keys to change the current selection and SPACE to select the current action. Be aware that global actions have a more significant impact in the game than do individual city actions.
To determine decisions on different events happening in the world, press the P button to enter into the policy menu. There, you are presented with a specific scenario and must make a decision based on what has happened. To select the decision that you are making, use either the LEFT or RIGHT arrow keys to perform the action that’s stated at the bottom of the window (under the arrow). After a policy decision is determined, there will be a global impact of loyalty, happiness, and/or intelligence. To exit the policy menu and instead perform a different action, hit the ESCAPE key. Please note that exiting the policy menu does not exemplify you from determining the policy that showed up on screen. The only way you can “regenerate” a scenario is by either determining policy on that scenario or going to the next turn.

That’s really all there is to it in Karellen’s Reign. There are many different separate mechanics, but they all come together to create an advanced scenario that you can customize with your actions in the world. Just make sure to use all of your actions and work to “assimilate” the world mentally in as few turns as possible! Good luck!
